INSTRUCTION MANUAL 


REQUIRES REGISTERED 
VERSION OF FURY? 


SOFTWARE LICENSE 


This agreement sets forth the license terms and conditions for using the enclosed Software. By using the 
enclosed Software, you agree to be bound by the terms of this license. 


WizardWorks, Inc. grants you a non-exclusive, non-transferable license to (a) use the Software on a 
single computer; (b) physically transfer the Software from one central processing unit (CPU) to another 
(which will then become the designated CPU); (c) make one copy of the Software for backup purposes. 
You must place the same copyright information on the backup copy. You may not electronically transfer 
the Software from one computer to another over a modem or through a network. You may not transfer, 
sell, assign, rent, lease or otherwise distribute copies of the Software or documentation to others. The 
Software was designed and licensed for use on a single user computer system. WizardWorks, Inc. makes 
no warranties with respect to the performance of the Software on networked computers or in multiple-user 
or multiple-CPU operating environments. 


PROPRIETARY RIGHTS 

The Software and documentation are copyrighted by and proprietary to WizardWorks, Inc. and/or our 
suppliers. WizardWorks, Inc. and/or our suppliers retain title and ownership of the Software and 
documentation. You acknowledge that the Software and Documentation contain valuable trade secrets 
and other proprietary information belonging to WizardWorks, Inc. and/or our suppliers. You agree to hold 
the Software in confidence and to take reasonable steps to prevent disclosure to others. 


NO OTHER RIGHTS 

Except as stated above, this agreement does not grant you any rights to patents, copyrights, trade 
secrets, trade names, trademarks (whether registered or unregistered), or any rights, franchises or license 
with respect to the Software and documentation. WizardWorks, Inc. reserves all rights not explicitly 
granted in this license agreement. 


TERM 

The license granted under this agreement is effective until terminated. You may terminate the license at 
any time by destroying the Software and documentation in your possession, or subject to your control, 
together with all copies or modifications in any form. WizardWorks, Inc. may terminate your license 
immediately if you fail to comply with any term or condition of this agreement. You agree that upon any 
such termination you will destroy the Software and documentation in your possession, or subject to your 
control, together with all copies or modifications in any form. 


WARRANTY DISCLAIMER AND LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY 

Warranty Disclaimer: Although we have tested the Software, neither WizardWorks, Inc. nor anyone 
else involved in the creation, production, delivery, or licensing of the Software or documentation 
make any warranty or representation of any kind, express or implied with respect to the Software 
or documentation, or its quality, reliability, title or performance, or its merchantability or fitness for 
any particular purpose or application. As a result, the Software and documentation is licensed “as 
is”, and you, the licensee, are assuming the entire risk as to their quality and performance; you, 
and not WizardWorks, Inc., assume the entire cost of all necessary services or repairs. 


Limitation of Liability: In no event will WizardWorks, Inc. or anyone else involved in the creation, 
production, delivery or licensing of the Software or documentation be liable to you for any direct, 
indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any kind arising out of the use of the 
Software or documentation or any defect in the Software or documentation, even if WizardWorks, 
Inc. or anyone else involved in the creation, production, delivery, or licensing of the Software of 
documentation has been advised of the possibility of such defects. In particular WizardWorks, Inc. 
will have no liability for any hardware, software or data stored or used with the Software, including 
the costs of repairing, replacing or recovering such hardware, software, or data. 


EXPORT 


You acknowledge that the laws and regulations of the United States restrict the export and re-export of commodities and 
technical data of United States origin, including the Software and documentation. You agree that you will not export or re- 
export the Software or documentation or any media containing them. 


Microsoft® Fury® copyright © 1995 by Microsoft Corporation 


F!IZONE CD 
Copyright © 1995 by Terminal Reality Inc. 
Distributed by: WizardWorks, Inc. 
3850 Annapolis Lane North, Suite 100 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55447 USA 612-559-5301 


Table of Contents 


MINIMUM SYSTEM REQUIREMENT SS ............scccscsssscseccccssssscsscscssccccccees 3 
| fs pod Bee) BS BO BO) OR cd 6) a et ee a a 3 
Sls 2 oo: ee a a ee 3 
EO | ee ee ee eee eee ae en ene ee eee ee eee 3 
fe Ci bd | et S| nn ee nn a en ne ea ner 4 
PLAYING BONUS AUDIO TRACKS wvsiscesscsctcccsvcsiscicassscacsseventtacusesesiateseied 4 
USING FURY3 EDITOR TO CREATE NEW LEVELS ...............cccccsccceees 5 
UG Ce | hae 0 eS ee 5 
CSENERAL PUR Y » EDITOR TNBOR IIA TION weescciwsccoccuscencssiavessitcnsmuanvmacsneisreaiereionmuse x: 
CCN OW UE EGE SIE, 0 C0 | | i aa ae 6 
How to Use the Grourid Alita LQHOP soccconssnccncdesnesauvcdsendeveavteveneenttebeesebexcees 6 
TIE UE ACE I eh censor es a a edema. 7 
How to Use the Tevtare Placenrent EQiOr eccisicccii oo cccducescuovitanactacasedatarietere Vs 
Petal VARA SCQNP  fscxcacsersameanssrem ence teimnszcsmtten mania anusminenaioimen an eupiasbaptioas 8 
ERSTE BE) D8 | ee ee ee ee eee Teme 9 
PLONE TOTO CTA SO OEON wissccscanhsinnnsitincnaisaatial teeta capiasiecnnacniitsnenpuastnacebacmcussinn 9 
WOOO IN ss cccrspercnit al aoseincicrep ecennciiononninantanaomenieg mionnionsiton 10 
Ue REM Sow OR COL, cc. ee ear e eres 13 
6 ee ce aia ae Te en eR er rete ane meee 15 
DE ELS || SE oT eT Te ee ae nT ne Yee [5 
FB OME, a TE Tn Te ae Te ere ee 16 
TIED COTTE OP esc ciza sssancirre spas atnir acer hemes ria ec cel caste cps esas 18 
How tause the Tunnel Seomient PAV OP scscaseccscescuusyexensoanswmvonmcavasacannuzeausaee 19 
FEL ee cE | ee ee ee cae ne a ener ee ri 19 
Placing Enemies GRA POWOFUPS UT TURNELS sscssssscssnsnesasnsaxoarenrainenscavernaonucens 20 
ES ee ee ee ee re ee 21 
PRE GES OZ S|. ne a ee eee ene ee Ze 
CHANGING THE TEXT AND THE PLANET OF THE MISSION BRIEFING ............-2200- 25 
PLAYING VOUR NEW WORLD weiscesiscccssicccnssscnsiivessececrcsecacennasevacekecnne 26 
BL, SR RC FE ncvcnatarecseiisccnaivensntccasuessvevncnevanteussenennieaenaes 28 
TRANSERRAING VV ORLDS FO FES soiree eiceeccsaprcecnssivesenvtramcaeesvinewceranieies 28 
DELETING OLD LEVEL FILES TO FREE SPACE ON YOUR HARD DRIVE............605 28 
CWE RS ORE DL, re eee saa 29 
FE CBA A UO eresecrcssvasevereceesnsnnsunerscseneaemerenieuraasaneeacecomsccenereiwens 30 


FIZONE User’s Guide 


Installation of FIZONE 


Minimum System Requirements 


A full version of Microsoft® Fury’ installed on your hard drive 
IBM compatible PC 486DX/66 meeting Microsoft® Fury® system requirements 
CD ROM drive 
35 MB of available hard disk space 
(with more needed depending upon the number and size of levels you create) 


Installation of F/Zone 


Windows 95 

o Have Microsoft® Fury’ installed to its default location. 

12) Place the F/Zone CD in your drive. 

® Have Windows running, with other applications closed. Click Start then Run. 
4) In the Run line, type the letter of your CD drive followed by :\WIN95\SETUP 


and press Enter or click OK. For example, if your CD drive is “D” type 
D:\WIN9S\SETUP and press Enter or click OK. 


8 Follow the on screen directions, accepting the default installation locations. (/f 
it can’t find your Fury3 ¢ exe file, you didn't follow the default locations when 
you installed Microsoft® Fury’. Click the Browse button and manually locate 
the Fury3.exe file. The installation will continue properly. However, for best 
results make sure both Microsoft® Fury® and F!Zone are installed to their 
factory default locations. The manual assumes this.) 


6] F!Zone is now installed and ready to use! 
Windows 3.1 
1) Have Microsoft® Fury’ installed to its default location. 


2) Place the F/Zone CD in your drive. 
® Have Windows running, with other applications closed. Click File then Run. 
e 


In the Command Line, type in the letter of your CD drive followed by 
‘\WIN31\SETUP and press Enter or click OK. For example, if your CD drive 
is “D” type DAWIN31\SETUP and press Enter or click OK. 


® Follow the on screen directions, accepting the default installation locations. (/f 
it can't find your Fury3 ¢ exe file, you didn't follow the default locations when 
you installed Microsoft® Fury”. Click the Browse button and manually locate 
the Fury3.exe file. The installation will continue properly. However, for best 
results make sure both Microsoft® Fury’ and F!Zone are installed to their 
factory default locations. The manual assumes this.) 


.6) F!Zone is now installed and ready to use! 


FIZONE User’s Guide 


Running F/Zone 


o 


Windows 985: Click the Start button then Programs then F/Zone then 
FURY3 EDITOR. (Yo.: may want to create a shortcut to Fury3 
Editor on your desktop.) 


Windows 3.1: Open the F/Zone program group and double-click the Fury3 
Editor icon. 


When the Fury3 Editor screen appears you may play the new F!/Zone 
Special Edition levels by clicking File then Play Fury3. 


At the Play Fury3 dialog you have 3 choices. 


To play the new levels included with F/Zone, click Play Special Edition 
Levels. Or click on your choice. Use the Fury3 Editor Instructions | in the 
following chapters to create your own new levels for Microsoft® Fury’. You 
must create at least one new level before you can Play Custom Levels. 


Microsoft® Fury” is now launched using your choice of levels. If you want to 
see the Videos played between mission, you must have the F/Zone CD in 
your drive as you are playing. 


Have Fun!!! 


Playing Bonus Audio Tracks 


You can play the Bonus Audio Tracks on a regular audio CD player as you would any 
other audio CD. 


CAUTION: Do not play the first track on an audio CD player. It is a data track and was 
not intended for audio playback. . 


Using FURY3 EDITOR 


Using Fury3 Editor to Create New Levels 


Fury3 Editor is a powerful utility that you can use to create new Worlds for Microsoft® 
Fury”. Were the original levels too hard? Too easy? Do you want to name the enemy 
ships after the neighborhood bully? Now it is up to you to be the creator of not only 
what the Worlds look like, but also of an entire Fury® story! Use these Fury3 Editor 
instructions to guide you through the creation of your own worlds. 


A helpful note: Keep the manual at hand as you create your first few levels. You may 
want to keep a notepad handy to aid in designing levels. The levels are large and the 
choices many. Experimentation with all your options is the best way to learn how to 
create wonderful Microsoft® Fury® adventures! 


Creating a New World 


The first thing to do is create a new level. Click File then New Level. 
Fury3 Editor will ask you some questions about the world you wish to create. 


@ SEED: This is a random number that is used when generating the terrain. 
You can use values from 0-32768. You may wish to write down this number 
so that you can recreate the terrain if you like it. Type in your number (let’s 
use 42) and press Enter. 


2) CORNER HEIGHT and CENTER HEIGHT: These are used for the lowest 
and highest points that are created in your world. The range of valid values is 
0-255. The world is built from the Corner to the Center of the world map. If 
you want a very mountainous world, use a Corner Height of 0 and a Center 
Height of 255. If you want a flatter terrain, use closer values. (For a starter, 
use Corner =20, and Center =220.) You can also reverse the order and go 
from 255 to 0 and make some interesting terrain. 


® SMOOTHING FACTOR: This value determines how much to smooth the 
rough terrain that was created on your world map. You will get more rolling 
hills and smoother transitions from ground to mountains as you increase this 
number. You can use the values 0-255, but generally you will use 2 or 3 for 
best results. Don’t go beyond 10. Type 2 and press Enter. 


4) LEVEL NAME: You must now name your level. DO NOT change directories. 
Just type in a name 8 characters or less. (For now, let’s just call it TEST.) 


General Fury3 editor Information 


When you have a level open, but are not in any of the specific editor portions, the 
name of the level is displayed on your screen. You may then choose from the 
commands on the Menu Bar. When you are in one of the texture portions, Fury3 
Editor displays the screen with the map of the terrain in the center and various pieces 
of information around the borders. The Zoom is displayed in the upper right corner, 
the Altitude in the upper left corner and the (X,Z) world coordinates in the lower left. 
When you are in a texture portion you will see the current texture in the lower right 
corner. Press ESC to exit any of the editor screens. 


Fury3 Editor uses a left hand coordinate system, where X is the left-to-right, Y is 
up-and-down, and Z is forward-and-backward. It starts with the coordinate (0,0) in 
the lower left corner and (256,256) in the upper right corner of the map. The center is 


FIZONE User’s Guide 
at (128,128) and the world wraps around on its edges. As you reach a 256 boundary, 

it wraps you back to the 0 boundary and continues you on your way. The world is 
seamless and allows you to travel wherever you wish. 


It is a great idea to lay down as much information as you can on paper before you get 
into level design. Draw the map and put down where you would like things to 
generally be placed. This will enable you to keep some kind of order and also have a 
clear goal as to what you want your world to do. Don't just wander around the map 
placing items with no plan. Remember, you are the creator of a world, not an 
unorganized junkyard. (For your first level, TEST, don’t worry much about design. 
Just experiment with the Fury3 Editor commands and functions.) 


Ground Altitude Editor 


This creates or modifies the altitude of the ground in your world. It is what creates 
mountains, foothills or depressions. Click Tools then Ground Altitude Editor. 


These Keys execute their corresponding features: 


Arrow keys moves around the world map 
Shift + Arrow keys moves around the world map faster 
Spacebar enters in an altitude for the currently point or selection (0-255) 
[, ] brackets lowers or raises altitude 1 point at a time (0-255) 
Left Shift +[, ] lowers or raises altitude 10 points at a time (0-255) 
expands the cursor range (expands 5 times then goes back to 1) 


zooms your view (0.5 to 16 times) 

go to specific NAV points you have defined 

(press G again to enter an (X,Z) coordinate to jump to) 
raises all lower altitude points to this altitude 

rotates view clockwise 

rotates view counter clockwise 


How to Use the Ground Altitude Editor 


Use the arrow keys to move around the world map changing altitude points to suit 
your idea of how the terrain should look. After generating your random terrain when 
you created this level, this is the “tweaking” stage. 


Go to a relatively uneven area you wish to build into a mountain. You don't want to go 
to a flat area or it will just create a plateau. Press your F6 key to expand you cursor 
range. Start raising up altitude points slowly using the [ ] keys until you get a good, 
uneven look. To adjust the final shape of the mountains, press F6 until the cursor 
range is back to one and adjust the final shape. There is your mountain! 


You will also want to create some flat bases for all the squares you will be placing 
models (enemies) onto so that they will not float off the ground or sit teetering on a 
single spike of ground. Do this by pressing F6 to expand your cursor range. Press 
Spacebar and type an altitude similar to that which is displayed. Press Enter. Done! 


It is a very good idea to finish creating the entire world’s terrain before texturing the 
world (next section). The Fractal Landscaper uses the altitude points to determine 
where texture transitions take place, so you will want to have your terrain, or Ground 
Altitude, just the way you want it before placing textures. 


Press ECS to exit this screen and save your changes. 


. Using FURY3 EDITOR 
Texture Placement Editor 


Click Tools then Texture Placement Editor. This portion places textures (designs or 
colors or images) on the squares of the world map. The textures, along with the 
terrain, are what make the worlds look unique. This creates bases or lakes or rivers 
or snowcapped mountains. Press ECS to exit this screen and save your changes. 


These Keys execute their corresponding features: 


Arrow keys moves around the world map 
Shift + Arrow keys moves around the world map faster 
Spacebar places a texture down on the surface 
Ctrl + Space grabs a texture from the current cursor window position 
[, ] brackets moves through the list of textures in the lower right corner 
Left Shift +[, ] moves through the list of textures 10 at a time 
expands the cursor range (expands 5 times then goes back to 1) 
+, - zooms your view (0.5 to 16 times) 
G go to specific NAV points you have defined 


press G again to enter an (X,Z) coordinate to jump to 
Pg Dn rotates view clockwise 
End rotates view counter clockwise 


blows up a texture to see detail 
creates a random Fractal Landscape (see section below) 


How to Use the Texture Placement Editor 


Remember, place your textures AFTER you have created your terrain (Ground 
Altitude Editor). 


Use the arrow keys to move around the world map changing textures to suit your idea 
of how the graphical appearance of the world should look. You can place each of the 
65536 textures manually, or you can use the Fractal Landscaper (see below) to do it 
automatically. We suggest the Fractal Landscaper! 


This is the “tweaking” stage, after generating your random Fractal Landscape. The 
selected texture is displayed in the lower right corner. You scroll through the list of 
available textures by pressing [ or] , or Left Shift + [ or ] to scroll faster. You place a 
texture in any square (or range of selected squares) by pressing the spacebar when 
you have your desired texture selected. You will see the change take place on the 
world map. 


The Fractal Landscaper creates much of the needed texture, but not all of it. You 
must still place the bases and add final touches. There is no real way to get it perfect 
the first time, but getting enough done to the terrain at the beginning and using the 
Fractal Landscaper will save you hours of tedious work fixing worlds that you have 
created. 


FIZONE User’s Guide 

Some base textures are comprised of a series of textures which cover many squares 
on the world map. Textures for a base are listed in order as you scroll through the 
files. Typically, this is how they should be arranged on the map so that they fit 


properly: 


If you have changed your rotation of the map they may not fit. When you place the 
first 2 or 3 textures you will see right away if your rotation is not aligned. If the textures 
are not lining up, you must change to the proper rotation (using the Pg Dn or End 
keys) and then replace the textures. 


Hint: Once you get into advanced level design, you can place your NAV points after 
you use the Fractal Landscaper but before you place base textures and tunnel 
textures. This enables you to jump from one location to another quite quickly, and you 
will then be sure you are at the proper location for your base. 


Fractal Landscaper 


When you are in the Texture Placement Editor portion you can press the letter R. This 
will help you texture your world in a snap! Start by answering Yes to create it. 


Then you must enter the Number of transitions. The transitions are the changes in 
texture type (i.e. water to dirt, dirt to grass, and grass to rock). The number of 
transitions is how many times the type changes, like 3 for the example above. Type 3 
and press Enter. You cannot enter more transitions than the Run is capable of. 


The following table lists the available RUNS (see below) and the maximum transitions 
available for that run: 


The next item you are asked for is the Blending Factor. This is the amount of 
variation given between altitude points that lets textures creep up or down the hillsides 
for a more natural looking world. A good value to use is 32, but if you want a distinct 
line of transition from one texture to another you should use a blending factor value 1. 
For now, type 32 and press Enter. 


Now you must enter the base name for a Run of Textures used for transitions. 
These are listed in the table above. Type EGYPT and press Enter. 


The last things to be entered are the Altitudes at which transitions take place. 
These are the altitude points where we go from one texture type (water) to the next 
texture type (dirt). You will enter the altitudes at which these transitions occur. The 
number of altitude entries will actually be one less than the number of transitions you 
entered. Type 70 at transition altitude #1 and press Enter, and 170 at transition 
altitude #2 and press Enter. 

(e.g. texture run - transition altitude - texture run - transition altitude - texture run) 


Using FURY3 EDITOR 


Once you have entered all the values, the world texture will be generated and you can 
evaluate how it looks. If it does not meet your needs, or one particular run of textures 
is too overpowering, just press “R” and do it all over again! It is in your best interest to 
make sure you really like how the texture looks before you start placing bases and 
tunnels. This will keep you from scrapping the level and starting over in frustration. 
Tweaking is easy, re-doing everything hurts! 


Enemy Editor 


Before you can place enemies in the world you must define them. This is where you 
set up all of the characteristics of an enemy before adding them to a level. 


These Keys execute their corresponding features: 
[,] brackets scrolls through the list of enemies defined in the level 


N adds in a new enemy definition into the list 


-Press ECS to exit this screen and save your changes. 


How to Use the Enemy Editor 
The first time you open the Enemy Editor in a new level, you will be see the dialog 
below. Click Add. 


You will then be asked to select an Enemy Template. You can select whatever you 
want, but for now let’s select Air Enemy, and click OK. You can go back and add 
other Enemy Templates and other enemies at any time after adding the first one. 


Select Enemy Template Ed 


Se abe ues 


FIZONE User’s Guide 


You will now see a display similar to the one below. It is a list of fields, each of which 
can be changed by pressing the appropriate letter or number on the left. 


* FiZone Fury3 Editor 
File Edit Tools Enemy 
Be RT Ped feb Sk 
2, Grenred Portion Fret olatmtreted = 
. ome bte metedetl tibt : feeqehpe. car 
SIME med tilt + Dube. bar 
FP. Leet: FCP gine ATTeTKA Retreat Caeser ti 
. Thrust Speed : 
HW. Rotation Speed : 
» Fit Speed : 
BO Fitet Etretreath ¢ dione. 
_ LP TYpt : Green Laser 
. Brot om Bratéima : Sts 
f. Farmdom atnteate : wits 
. Ronatrup peti (0-1 : in ‘em: 
. Fowerup type : Turis Thrust ; he : 
. Fescripetion : Thes® guys try to kick Some Gutt. Fut : 
Attach distance : Zs = 
. Retrtat distance : x 
. Fim I tht East : Ps 
ww. Find sprtad : © horizcuwert 
al EC WP | OE 
.. ER COndard weap dist : oO 
. Fave® wethtezity so 
~. Beer Fite Fait: 
mM. Esse Stl] Pe: 
Sumber in database : 4 


meetm'4 mount : 16 oF Go 


Description of the Fields 


Press the respective letter to change field attributes of the following list. To add 
another type of enemy, Press N and answer Y for yes. Then, when you use the 
bracket keys [], you will see another enemy type in the lower right corner. You can 
then change the attributes for that enemy. You will want to add a bunch of enemies at 
this screen, because only the enemies you add here will be available at the Place 
enemy command (see below), 


B e Size Don't worry about this field. 


C e Ground Position from Centroid (X, Y, Z) 

This entry allows you to move an object in any direction from where it would normally 
be placed into the world. We never change the X or Z coordinates since we can do 
that in the Move Enemies option. But we may want to change the Y coordinate if we 
want an object to float off the ground. Tne number that you will enter should be based 
on how big the object is and how many times that size you want it off the ground. 


D e Complex Model 

The complex model is the model type that you see when you are close to any object 
that you are fighting or trying to destroy. You may type in a model name if you know it. 
Or select this option from the pull down menu, and then pick from a list of models 
defined in the game. Experimentation is the key to finding the enemy you want. 


E e Simple Model Don't worry about this field. 
F e Logic Types 


There are a lot of different logic types in the game. It helps to just look through them 
and see what you would like to try. To cycle through the list of logic types, press the F 


10 


Using FURY3 EDITOR 


key until you get to the one that you want. Once you reach the end of the list it will 
cycle back to the beginning. 


G e Thrust Speed 

The thrust speed is how fast a flying ship moves around in the world. For a ship to 
move one square a second it needs at least a thrust speed of 65536. This is the 
speed that it takes for that ship to fly through one square per second. There are other 
factors that affect it, such as the size of the ship, so you may want to adjust the 
settings to see what you like best. Bigger ships should move slower. We typically use 
about 80000 to 90000 for standard ships and we sometimes go up to 130000 for fast 
ships. 


H e Rotation Speed 

The rotation speed is how fast a ship can turn as it moves. The lower the number the 
wider the turn that is takes. A rotation speed of 65536 will allow the ship to make one 
full revolution in one second. We typically use very high turning speeds so you do not 
always run into the ships that are attacking you. The normal values we use are 
between 80000 to 120000. When a ship turns away, or comes to attack, is 
determined in the Attack and Retreat Distances. 


J e Fire Speed 
The fire speed is how fast that the enemy shoots a single shot. The lower the value 
the faster the enemy will shoot. One shot per second is a value of 65536. 


K e Fire Strength 

The fire strength is how much damage an enemy will inflict on the ship when it is hit. 
One hit point worth of damage is 4096, and your game ship can take up to 16 hits 
before being destroyed (that is a value of 65536). 


L e Weapon type 

These are the list of weapons types that you can assign to any ship. To cycle through 
the list of weapons types, press the L key until you get to the one that you want. Once 
you reach the end of the list it will cycle back to the beginning. 


M e Show on briefing? 
This option lets you toggle a flag (Yes or No) that will display this enemy type and 
description on the level briefing screen before you start a level. 


R e Random Generate? 

This option lets you toggle a flag (Yes or No) that will allow the game to spawn new 
enemies as you fly around the world. You MUST place at least one of this type of 
enemy in your level before playing it or you may get an error message “unable to 
spawn copycat” as you are playing. This is because the game cannot find one of 
those enemies on the level to be randomly spawned. 


O e Powerup Probability 
This will allow you to set the percentage probability that an enemy leaves behind a 
powerup when it is destroyed. The range is from 0 (for none) up to 100 (for always). 


P e Powerup Type 

This will allow you to set which powerup is left behind by the enemy when destroyed. 
To cycle through the list of powerups, press the P key until you get to the one that you 
want. Once you reach the end of the list it will cycle back to the beginning. 


im 


FIZONE User’s Guide 

Q e Description 

This is where you can type in some witty or funny description for the enemy. You may 
want to limit the length of the description to about 40 or 50 characters, and also limit 
the types of special characters that you enter. 


S e Attack Distance 

The attack distance is the distance from you that an enemy will be before it turns to 
start attacking you. If an enemy is in retreat mode, it will move back to the attack 
distance setting before it turns to attack you again. We typically set the attack 
distance at about 24 to 32. We consider one square’s distance to be 16 units. 


T e Retreat Distance 

The retreat distance is the distance from you that an enemy will come to before it 
turns to run away. This value is lower than the attack distance. We typically set the 
retreat distance at about 16 to 24. We consider one square’s distance to be 16 units. 


U e Am | the Boss? 

This is a toggle for an enemy that we wish to designate as the BOSS. The BOSS will 
only be displayed in a level when you reach that particular Nav point where you go up 
against the BOSS (set in your Navigation Points). There will only be one of this enemy 
on your level. 


V e Fire Spread 
The fire spread are the different styles that you can assign to an enemy for their firing 
characteristics. 


W e Secondary Weapon 

The secondary weapon is another weapon that the enemy uses when it is in retreat 
mode. If you begin to follow an enemy, you may get attacked by its secondary 
weapon firing back at you. 


X e Secondary Weapon Dist 

This is the distance at which the enemy begins to fire its secondary weapon at you. 
We typically set this to about 8 or 16. We consider one square’s distance to be 16 
units. You may want to increase it to 16 to 24 if you get pelted too much! 


Y e Fire Velocity 

The fire velocity is the speed at which the enemy fire its weapons; actually, it is the 
speed at which the weapon shot moves through the environment. This value is about 
4,000,000 for a shot to travel one square. We typically use between 1 million and 2 
million for the firing velocity. 


Z and 0 e BOSS Fire and BOSS Yell F/X 

These are wav files that the Boss plays as you are attacking it. You can copy your 
own .WAV files into the ...\Microsoft Fury3\GOUND directory. Then type in the 
filename at the Z or 0 fields. 


Press ECS to exit this screen and save your changes. 


12 


Using FURY3 EDITOR 


Placing Enemies and Powerups 


These Keys execute their corresponding features: 

[,] brackets — scrolls through the list of defined enemies or powerups 

Space ' places any enemy or powerup 

Pg Dn rotates the screen clockwise 

End rotates the screen counter clockwise 

+= changes the zoom factor 

G goes to specific NAV points that you have defined. 
press G again and enter in an (X,Z) coordinate pair to jump to. 

S sets the strength of an enemy (ONLY used in the Move / Edit 

enemies option) 


There is a limit of 50 enemies that you can define on any level. (You define enemies 
in the Enemy Editor command.) The limit on the number of enemies that you can 
place in any level is 500. This includes all types of enemies and / or weapons bunkers 
in all places on the surface or in chambers (but NOT in tunnels since those are 
separate levels). You must have at least one Enemy placed on a level or it WILL 
NOT work. 


It is easy to place enemies and powerups. You select the Place Enemies option and 
then just move around the world and press Spacebar where you want to place the 
selected enemy. You will not receive any message that the enemy is placed, but you 
will see the enemy on the world map. The screen will display the zoom factor in the 
upper right hand corner. The enemy type number and a rotating picture of the enemy 
is in the lower right corner. You change the enemy or powerup by pressing the 
bracket keys [ ] .The type of powerup this enemy will yield when it is destroyed is in 
the upper left corner, and the (X, Z) coordinate and how many total enemies have 
been placed in the world thus far are at the bottom. 


¥ FiZone Fury Editor: 


You can place powerups out in the open if you want, but on the normal world surface 
we placed enemy bunkers and gave them a 100% probability that they would spawn a 
powerup. You can see the explanation about Defining Enemies for a more detailed 
description. We do this so that you never know which powerup you are getting until 
you blow open the bunkers. 


13 


FIZONE User’s Guide 


The display screen for the Move / Edit Enemies function displays more information for 
each enemy as you move through the list of enemies. All of these elements are 
displayed in the upper left hand corner as you scroll through the list. The display lists 
the Enemy # (used for the NAV Reference when you make a Target List), the Sector 
coordinates, the total number of enemies, the hit points for the enemy, the enemy 
type and logic assigned for this enemy, and what type of powerup the enemy yields 
when destroyed. The only elements that you can edit at this time are the placement of 
the enemy and the hit points for the enemy. Any ofthe other information displayed 
has to be changed under the Enemy Editor portion. 


 FiZone Fury3 Editor 

File Edit Tools Enemy 

SUP reer r SMM sh 

Spor + 0 

matal mumeEstr ot 

fit Fonts + 4038 i 

rete THe Mumesy 2 0 Flairnca Attache 
hb pip : Tir ces Thrust aor Pr oll 


To change the strength of any enemy you select the Move / Edit Enemies option and 
then use the [ and ] keys to move through the enemy list. Once you find the enemy 
you want to change, press S and enter the number of hit points for the strength of the 
enemy. We use 4096 as the basis of a single hit point, so if you want an enemy to 
have 10 hit points you would enter in a value of 40960. Flying enemies we typically 
put at two or up to five hit points and we give buildings from 10 up to 50 hit points. 
You typically place the higher hit points on the objectives for a level than you do on 
the cannon fodder for the level. BOSSes are another story and their hit points are 
based on how hard you want to make them. We usually set them at 100 or 200 hit 
points, but you can give them more if you'd like. 


To remove any enemies or powerups, you select the Move / Edit option. Move (using 
the [ and ] keys) through the list of items placed. Once you find the one to be deleted, 
press D to remove it from the list. 


You need to watch how many items you place in one area. As you place more and 
more items, the game has to draw more and more detail, and deal with more and 
more at one time. The game may come to a crawl if you saturate any one area. So 
look at some of the levels that we have created, or you could just place them and see 
how slow it gets as you play. However, you may not want to do that because it 
probably wouldn’t be much fun...unless you like to watch grass grow. 


14 


Using FURY3 EDITOR 
Tunnels 


Tunnels are a different aspect of level creation because they are actually separate 
levels in and of themselves. You can have any number of tunnels on a planet, but 
once you get about a dozen or so on any one level it will be next to impossible to keep 
track of them. The Tunnel Editor simply creates or deletes tunnels in your main level, 
and fine tunes their coordinates. The Tunnel Segment Editor (described later) is what 
changes the appearance of your tunnel. 


Tunnel Editor 


With a level open, click on Tools then Tunnel Editor. You will now see a Tunnel 
command on the menu bar. Click Tunnel then Add Tunnel. You will be asked to 
enter the name of the tunnel. This is entirely up to you, but some convention should 
be used to make it easier. For example, if the main level is named TEST you could 
use TEST-T1, TEST-T2, TEST-T3, etc., if you are going to have more than one 
tunnel. The filename should be 8 characters or less. 


You will then be asked to place the entrance and exit somewhere on the world map. 
Use the arrow keys to move around the map. Click on the coordinates for the 
entrance and exit, respectively. The list of tunnels in your current level is now on 
screen. You may want to write down these coordinates on paper so you can keep 
track of your tunnels for proper texture placement. 


If you wish to remove a tunnel from your level, just select the Delete Tunnel option 
from the Tunnels command on the Menu bar. You will be prompted for the number of 
the tunnel from the list of tunnels. Enter the proper number and it will be deleted. It 
should be noted that if you already created a reference to that tunnel in your NAV 
point list, you will now need to remove this reference completely or edit the NAV point 
list to reflect the change you just made (see Navigation Points section). 


Tunnels are used in four different ways: 


From a: 
ground layer 
ground layer 
chamber system 


chamber system ground layer 


Tunnels are not reversible. You cannot travel through Tunnel A to a chamber and 
then back to the ground layer through Tunnel A. You must create another Tunnel B 
from the chamber to the ground layer. 


The Tunnel / Move Tunnel option from the Menu bar allows you to fine tune your 
placement of tunnel entrances and exits. You should not have to do this; the default 
placement should center the tunnel just fine. You zoom in on the grid and slowly 
move where you wish the tunnels to be. You will be asked to move either an entrance 
or exit; type 1 for Entrance or 2 for Exit. You then scroll around the world to the 
square where you want to move the entrance / exit to and press Spacebar to make 
the change take effect. White outlines show where tunnels are. Textures show the 
holes. 


IMPORTANT: This is the fine tuning step that enables you to center of the tunnel onto 


the center of the black area of any texture being used as an entrance or exit. Black is 
a mask color for the game; it does not draw that color when you are playing a level 


15 


FIZONE User’s Guide 

(unless you set the tunnel attributes to a “hidden” status). When you are playing, the 
game will load in the first five sections of any tunnel. When you fly over the tunnel you 
will be able to look down the tunnel to see what it looks like. 


Also, make sure the altitude points of the top corners of a tunnel entrance/exit square 
are the same, and that the altitudes of the bottom corners of those squares are the 
same. You do this at the Ground Altitude Editor. This makes it easier to fine tune the 
tunnels and it helps eliminate potential problems of things not lining up correctly. 


IMPORTANT: If your tunnel is not centered, you may not be able to see into, or enter, 
a tunnel you have placed in the world. Also, if the tunnels are not aligned properly, 
and you have a tunnel as one of your NAV objectives, the game will not allow you to 
proceed since you cannot complete that objective. 


Edit Tunnel Attributes 


Textures 

You must first specify which tunnel to change by typing its number and pressing 
Enter. You may change the textures for the entrance or exit by pressing 2 or 4. Then 
you may type in the texture filename you wish to use. These can be any of the 
textures you see in the lower right corner of the Texture Placement Editor window, 
although you should pick one that has the black tunnel hole in it. 


A thumbnail image of the texture WILL NOT appear when you are in the Edit Tunnel 
Attributes window. You must scroll through and find a texture when you are in the 
Texture Placement Editor. Write down the filename of the .RAW file you want. Then 
use it when you are at the Edit Tunnel Attributes window. Be sure to USE THE 
CORRECT TEXTURE NAME in order for the game to continue properly. Basically, 
make sure you TYPE THE NAME CORRECTLY and enter the .RAW extension after 
the name. 


Logics 

The other elements that you can change are the Entrance and Exit Logics used. 
Cycle through the available logics by pressing 5 or 6 until you get the one you want. 
The Logics allow you to set how the tunnels are viewed or used in the game. 


@ “Use ground texture (hidden)” uses whatever texture you placed on the 
ground instead of the entrance or exit texture named above. 


@ “Remain open” uses the entrance or exit texture named above and allows 
you to see into the tunnel as you fly above it. This is the logic you will probably 
use the most. 


6 “Remain open, but closed for BOSS’ which is used when you encounter a 
BOSS in the game. This option uses whatever texture is placed on the 
ground (in the world map) and blocks the tunnel from being seen until you 
beat the BOSS. Once the BOSS is defeated the tunnel uses the tunnel 
entrance texture and opens up access to the tunnel. 


4) “Close upon entering / exiting” is used for a tunnel that leads into a BOSS 
chamber so that you cannot see where you came into the chamber. This is 
basically a little trick to make it seem as if you are totally cut off from the 
outside world and trapped in there with the BOSS. Once you defeat the 
BOSS you may see the tunnel you came from but you will be blocked from 
going back into it by electrical fields that block tunnel exits. 


16 


Using FURY3 EDITOR 
Exit into Chamber Y/N 
This tells the game if you are using the chamber system and that it must work a little 
differently from a normal tunnel. Press 7 to toggle Yes or No. (A more in-depth 
explanation of how chambers work is given in the Chambers section later.) If you 
accidentally set this to yes, but are not using a chamber, the entire world will now be 
considered a chamber. As you now exit the tunnel and go back to the surface, 
everything will look and function quite strangely. It may look cool and bizarre, but it will 
most likely be unplayable! Simply change it back to N. 


17 


FIZONE User’s Guide 


Tunnel Segment Editor 


In order to use the Tunnel Segment Editor, you must have already created a tunnel by 
following the instructions in the previous section. If that is done, close down any levels 
you have open. Now, open a tunnel level. For example, if you named a tunnel 
TEST-T1.LVL, click File then Open Level and then select TEST-T1.LVL from the list 
of .Ivl files. Then click OPEN. Your tunnel level is now open and you should see that 
the Tools / Tunnel Segment Editor command is now.active. Click on that command. 


These Keys execute their corresponding Moving features: 


Up Down Arrows moves forward or backward one section 
Left Right Arrows moves a section left or right one unit 
Shift + Arrow keys widens or shrinks a tunnel section’s width and height 
Q,A lowers or raises a tunnel section 

G go to specific section of your tunnel 

Pg Up twists the tunnel clockwise 

Home twists the tunnel counter clockwise 

Tab turns the INFO display on or off 

Shift + R sets the rotation speed of a tunnel section (0 to +,- 360) 
(sets the speed per second, but can also be negative) 


These Keys execute their corresponding Texture features: 


[ ] brackets moves through the list of textures one at a time 
Left Shift + [ ] moves through the list of textures ten at a time 
Numbers (1 and up) followed by T (i.e. 3 then T) 
number sets which tunnel wall section you want to place the 
texture on, and the T places it 
C copies the texture of the previous section to the current section 
Shift + C copies the texture of the next section to the current section 
F sets the flicker settings for a tunnel (range 0 = off and up to 4) 
| sets the ambient light level (how dark a section is) 
Shift + | sets the light intensity (how bright a light is in that section) 
(This is also the light level for lights and flickering lights. If a light 
is off {set to side 0} this does not get used in a section.) 
Numbers (1 and up) followed by L (i.e. 3 then L) 
the number sets which tunnel wall section you want to cast the 
light from, and the L lights it (press O + L to turn light off) 


O places an obstruction between tunnel sections (Then select from 
the list of obstructions displayed. ) 

W blows up a texture for viewing detail 

Shift + T places a texture on certain obstructions (doors and blocks) 

S) sets up standard tunnel sections that you may use 


(You must first create the tunnel sections using the S key before 
using the N key to set the number of sections.) 
N sets the number of sections that the tunnel has (Total number of 


sections that can be used is 6-90. Generally, don’t go >50.) 
R creates a random tunnel. You can then change # of sections 
J joins together different sections you created 
RS same as R 
F4 same as N 


same as C 


18 


Using FURY3 EDITOR 


How to use the Tunnel Segment Editor 


When you open your tunnel for the first time, it will be green and 5 sections long. 
These steps will demonstrate how to change your tunnel segment attributes: 


oe Press'S to set up sections. You are now at the User Input dialog: 
eFor # of cells, type in, for example, 12 and press Enter. 
eFor x-size type in 1024 (for a medium tunnel) and press Enter. 
eFor y-size type in 1024 (for a medium tunnel) and press Enter. 
eFor Waviness type in 2 and press Enter. 
eFor Texture... type N and press Enter. 


2) This will bring up a list. Press, for example, N for a straight hex tunnel. 


® You are now back at your tunnel, and you must designate how many sections 
you desire. Press N and type 12 for the number of sections. 


(If you received a Fatal Error, go back into the Tunnel Segment Editor and do 
those steps again, being careful to follow the directions.) 


4) Use your ] key to scroll through the textures until you get to 10dest.raw . 
Press 1 then press T. You will see the texture change. Press 3 then press T. 
You see another texture change, and see the changes in the INFO display on 


the left. 

8 Press the Arrow Up key once. You are now at section 2. Press C to copy the 
previous section to your current section. 

@ To save your changes press Escape. Click Yes to save. 

7) Go back into the Tunnel Segment Editor and use any of the Keys listed above 


to make changes to your tunnel. Below are some hints and tips for using the 
Tunnel Segment Editor. 


Hints and Tips 

There are many things that you can do to tunnels and a lot of cool effects that you can 
create. The best tip we can give you Is to experiment with each of the options to see 
what you like best. Remember, even though you create cool tunnels, they do not stay 
cool if you cannot fly into them! You must go and fly through them as you make the 
changes to ensure a playable level. After you make some significant changes, put this 
level into a POD and give it a test spin (see Playing Your New Worlds). It is easier 
to fix things as you make the changes, rather than trying to fix a tunnel when you 
don’t know which step you did wrong. 


When you create new tunnel sections using the S key, you create any X number of 
new sections based upon what selections you choose. These new sections are 
created from your current position onward, and if you create a different style 
(octagonal instead of hexagonal) then these new tunnel sections will be disjointed. 
You will see a gap between them, but there are some solutions to this: 


e Lower the light levels so you don’t see the change. 

e Place an obstruction in the way so you can barely see the change. 

e Press J after moving into the next section so it will join with the previous 
section. The tunnel will twist to join the two sections as best it can. However, 
some strange things may appear depending on what you are joining, and 
since you cannot un-join you will want to save prior to joining. 


19 


FIZONE User’s Guide 

Obstructions can be placed anywhere in the tunnel, but it is a good practice to keep 
them out of the first or last tunnel sections. They may not work or display properly as 
you fly through the tunnel if they are in the first or last segments. 


Flickering lights placed in the tunnel environment use a different type texture than 
other textures. You may find that some textures will work just fine for flickering, but 
most were not made for it. Just keep trying until you get the exact look you desire! 


A last note before the DON'Ts. Tunnel editing works best if you create things, save 
the tunnel then experiment for fun. If it doesn’t work, just revert to your saved tunnel... 


Now for the DON'Ts: 
e Don't twist a tunnel too much using the Pg Up or Home keys. 
e Don’t make any segment too small - you must be able to fit in it. 
e Don't make too many changes without periodically saving it. 
e Don't create and edit your entire tunnel without flying through it at some point. 


Placing Enemies and Powerups in Tunnels 


Placing enemies and powerups in a tunnel is quite easy. You select the Place 
Enemies or Place Powerups option and then just move down the tunnel and press 
Spacebar where you want to place the selected enemy. You must have an enemy 
defined (see Enemy Editor section) or you will get an error. Select the enemy by 
scrolling through the list using the [ and ] keys (please see the Enemy Editor section 
for more information). Rotate the enemies around, using the Pg Up and End keys, 
until you can see that they are coming at you. Keep them away from doors or 
obstacles since they do not check for collisions and will travel right through them. 


To change the strength of any enemy, select the Move / Edit option and then use the [ 
and J] keys to move through the enemy list. Once you find the enemy you want to 
change, press S and enter in a number for the strength of the enemy. We use 4096 
as the basis of a hit point, so if you want an enemy to have 10 hit points you would 
enter in a value of 40960. 


To remove any enemies or powerups, you select the Move / Edit option and move 
through the list of items already placed. Once you find the one to be deleted, press D 
and it will be removed from the list. You cannot Move enemies or powerups in 
tunnels. Rather, you would delete it and then re-place it in the correct location. 


Any enemies that you place in a tunnel must have a logic of “Ground Static’ if they 
just sit in the tunnel, or “Tunnel Logic” if you want them to fly through the tunnel and 
attack you. Do not use any other logic type. Also, do not place any enemies in the first 
two tunnel sections or they will bombard you right away or just fly right by. 


Any powerups that you place in the tunnel need to be kept inside the boundary of the 
tunnel or you will be unable to pick them up (please see the Placing Enemies and 
Powerups section for more detail). 


The length of the tunnel (number of tunnel sections) , the number of textures placed 
in the tunnel, and the number of enemies and powerups placed in a tunnel will all 
affect the loading time of a tunnel. The more that you place in there, the longer it will 
take to load, so you should be careful about how complicated you make tunnels. 


Also, to help orient you in the tunnels, the game will automatically snap you to a 
normal position once you enter the tunnel so that you know which way is up. 


20 


Using FURY3 EDITOR 


Chambers 


Chambers are a unique feature of Microsoft® Fury’. To create chambers you must 
first select an area of the map in which you wish to place the chamber and then raise 
all of the altitude points in that area up to 255. Then you hollow out smaller areas that 
become your chambers. Tunnels are used to connect these chambers to each other 
and to the outside world. 


You want to select an area that is far away from your normal course of game play, 
since you have to do things a little different than the normal game. Typically we use 
the center area of the map for chambers and the edges of the map for normal game 
play. It is easier to deal with and we always know where the chambers are located. 
Use your NAV points (described below) to guide the gameplay away from the raised 
chamber areas. 


You must flatten out an area of about 40 by 40 (or larger) squares to an altitude of 
255 in the Ground Altitude Editor. You then select a smaller area (i.e. 10 x 10 
squares) within that larger area, and then lower the altitude points to start creating the 
chamber ground area. 


The chamber ceiling area is automatically created by mirroring the ground area and 
flipping it to form our ceiling. Chambers can be as long as you wish. The only 
limitation that we place on chambers is that they can only be ten (10) squares wide 
(or 10 squares across as X increases). We must do this so the automatic chamber 
ceiling texture references will work. The ceiling texture for each individual square of 
chamber ground is represented by the texture 10 squares to the right of it (as X 
increases). 


You must have your rotation (using Pg Up and End keys) set so that as you move to 
the right, your X value increases. On the next page is a sample of a basic chamber. 
Notice how the coordinates change. Place your ground textures for the chambers, 
then place your textures for the walls, then place your ceiling textures. Setting up the 
ceiling textures is tricky, and it will take a few tries before you are a pro. 


21 


FIZONE User’s Guide 


GW ~~ =ground wall texture CW =celling wall texture 

G =ground texture C =ceiling texture 

Zz =any Z coordinate (there is no limitation on the length of chambers) 

0,Z 10,2°11,Z 20,Z 


i?) 
S| 5 


CW 


CwyCc 


EEEEEEEEE 


Q 
= 


EECEREECERE 
ERRCEREREEE 
© 

ERECCEEEEEE 


EGECECEEEE 


co) 
ro) 
— 
2 
° 
— 
—_ 
ro) 
©) 


0,0 


We use the tunnels as a way of transitioning from our normal world to our chamber 
world and back again. You must have a tunnel leading into the chamber, and you 
must designate, in the Edit Tunnel Attributes of the Tunnel Editor, that this tunnel 
exits into a chamber. You must also have ANOTHER tunnel leading out of the 
chamber (this one does not exit into a chamber). Remember, tunnels are one-way 
passages. If you plan out your chambers ahead of time you can make lot of twisting 
areas and unique designs, the only drawback is setting up the texturing for the ceiling. 


Always remember, the ceiling texture for each individual square of chamber ground is 
represented by the texture 10 squares to the right of it, as X increases. 


Place Enemies and Powerups just as you would in the normal part of the world level. 


Placing a BOSS in a chamber is very common. Check out the F/Zone missions for 
clues on how your chambers can look. 


Navigation Points 
These Keys execute their corresponding features while in Map View Mode: 


moves around the map 
zooms in and out of the map 


turns the legend on / off 
turns the information display on / off 
jumps to any (X, Z) coordinates 


The Navigation or NAV system is used to direct the game play of a level from the start 
to the objectives to the ending jump zone. 


Select Place Navigation Points from the Tools menu. You will then see a NAV 
menu command. To add in a NAV point, select Add Nav Point and move around the 
world with the arrow keys. Once you have selected where you want to place the NAV 
point, you move the mouse cursor to that position and click the left mouse button. You 
will then be returned to the NAV list display screen where you designate which type of 
point it is to be. 


22 


Using FURY3 EDITOR 


Hint: Start by placing NAV Checkpoints rather than targets. This lets you fly through 
the world quickly without chasing down enemies. You still place your “targets” and can 
fiddle with their hitpoints, and when you are satisfied, then you can make them into 
NAV Targets. Then go back and delete the Checkpoint and Add the Target List. 


If you have set up your world texture, you will see where you have all of your target 
bases and other items, like tunnel entrances and exits, which makes things a lot 
easier to find. Once you click where you want to place the NAV point, you select what 
type of entry you want this to be by typing the number to the left of it: 


Target List 

Tunnel Entrance 

Checkpoint 

Jump Zone 

Tunnel Exit (Automatic after a tunnel Entrance) 
Boss 

Start Point 


Sanson = © 


A Target List is a list of enemies that you have placed in the world that you want to 
have destroyed. You typically will go from base to base and find out which buildings 
and targets you want to destroy for a particular area, and enter in those enemy 
numbers. The enemy numbers are obtained from the Move /Edit Enemies option, 
where it displays the Enemy # as the first line in the upper left hand corner. Write 
down all of the enemies that you want for a particular base and use these for the 
Target list. 


It asks how many targets there are. The maximum number of targets for any NAV 
point is 12; but if you have that many targets, you need to thin them out or make two 
different NAV points where you can break the list apart. Remember, the more items 
you have in one area, the slower the game will play. 


A Tunnel Entrance / Exit NAV point is one where you direct the player into a tunnel 
or chamber system for the purposes of exploration or to lead them into the BOSS 
chamber and the end of the level. If you do not place a tunnel in the NAV list itis a 
hidden tunnel where you can place lots of powerups or lead to another area of the 
world for exploration purposes. 


A Checkpoint is used to direct the player to a certain area of the world so that we can 
make them follow the assigned path that we have designed. We only really need to 
use these if we want the player to proceed on some set line of attack so that our next 
NAV point is approached from the right direction. 


A Jump Zone is the way that we end a level in normal game play. This is the warp 
gate item that you fly over to exit a planet. However, you do not have to use this to 
end a level. Once the game reaches the end of the NAV List it will end the levels 
automatically. You could have the level end after coming out of a tunnel or after 
finishing some crazy battle over a base. 


When you select the BOSS entry, you will first have to enter in the enemy number for 
that BOSS. You find this from the Move / Edit option as you scroll through the list of 
entries. Next you enter a MOD file name. This is the music file that is played for a 
BOSS. If you don’t know any of the other MOD file names, use BOSS.MOD as a 
default. The next portion of the BOSS definition is to define the number of secondary 
targets, like the BOSS shield bunkers that protect a BOSS, and the enemy numbers 
for those items. You can have many secondary targets that MUST be destroyed 
before you can attack and hurt the BOSS. These items are usually the BOSS shield 


23 


FIZONE User’s Guide 
bunkers or any other items that help protect a BOSS. One these are destroyed the 
BOSS health meter will be displayed and you can begin to wail on the BOSS. 


The Start Point is the NAV point where you start each level. If you selected Start 
Point, you will be asked to enter in your pitch, bank, and heading. The pitch and bank 
are not used in the game; it is the heading that you use. The heading is the direction 
that you face when you start flying. The range of values goes from 0 up to 65536. 
Each 90 degree increment is 16384 in value and each 45 degree increment would be 
8192 in value. , 


0 or 65536 
| 


| 
49152 _—— = 16384 
| 


| 
32768 


Typically, we try to point the ship at the first NAV point after your starting point so that 
you do not have to orient yourself in the world before going into the action. 
(i.e. Type 0,0,16384 if you want to start the level facing east.) 


IMPORTANT: It should be noted that the enemies that you select for the NAV targets 
and BOSS are a particular number in the list. If you remove that entry from the list, 
you may mess up your NAV points. So be sure that you do this as your last option for 
a level. We typically set up all of the targets as checkpoints to begin. Once we are 
happy with the way that the game plays and how everything looks and feels, we 
remove the checkpoints and add in the Target Lists or BOSS. 


To Delete any NAV point all you do is select the Delete option, enter in the number of 
the Point to delete, press Enter and your list will be updated. To Insert another NAV 
point, you click Insert NAV Point, type the position # in the list where you want to 
insert a Point and then go through the same procedures for the Add option. To Move 
a NAV point, you select the entry in the list to be moved and press enter. You are now 
in the VIEW mode. You use the arrow keys to move around and click the mouse 
where you want your new position to be for that NAV point. 


When you switch a Checkpoint point to a Target, you are changing the NAV point to 
be a target that you will have to hunt down and destroy. When you pick this option you 
follow the same procedures that you do for defining a Target in the normal addition of 
NAV points. We typically do not switch over targets, but delete the NAV point and re- 
enter in the NAV point as a Target List. Then we are able to add in more than one 
entry for a target list. 


24 


Using FURY3 EDITOR 


Changing the Text and the Planet of the Mission Briefing 


Adding in your own storyline for your world is very easy. If you named your level 
TEST.LVL, there will be a text file in the ...\data directory named TEST.TXT. Open it 


up using Notepad. 


Leave the first line alone if you want a planet to appear. However, you may 
modify this by using one of the .bin filenames found in the list of the Select 
Complex Model command in the Enemy Editor. For example, substitute 
head.bin for the default globe.bin file. You will see what happens when you try 
it... you'll have some interesting looking planets! 


The second line is the name of the texture you want wrapped around the 
planet. Make sure you type the correct filename for a texture (the texture 
filenames are found in the Texture Placement Editor, lower right corner). 


The rest of the text file contains your mission briefing. Don’t forget to save the 


file! Also, keep the text file rather narrow, because the mission briefing 
screen is not very wide. 


er yT: 


se eeepc pe ghd Se mas, 
earch ss Helpss 
Leg ae OTS a Sh Bos 


als] ea 


globe .bin 
16dest.raw 
This is just text typed 
into the april1.txt file. 


You must not have anything 
but bin or| -raw 

filenames in 

jthe first 2 lines. 


The rest of this file is 
text which will be displayed 
in the mission briefing. 


The descriptions for the enemies can be edited in the Enemy Editor, in the Fields 
list. Please see that section of the manual for instructions. 


25 


FIZONE User’s Guide 


Playing Your New Worlds 


To play your new worlds you simply POD them up. When your levels are complete (or 
when you just want to give them a test spin) close down the level you are in, and 


follow these steps: 


o Click File then Build Custom POD. You will see a Build Custom Pod dialog. 


Build Custom Pod 


april’ vl 
april4. Iv 
junk. lvl 

junk2. lvl 


2) Select the level or levels you want by clicking on them. Then click OK. 


® Enter the name you want to designate your world level(s). Click OK. 


User Inpt 
s mS RST 
ew: 


4) You must then enter a Mission name. This is the name that will be displayed 
when you are at the Microsoft® Fury® game screen. Click OK. 


26 


Playing Your New Worlds in FIZONE 


8 FiZone will generate your POD file and return you to F/Zone. Click File then 
Play Fury3. You will then see the Play Fury3 dialog. Click Play Custom 
Levels. 


Play Furys 
SETA I 


You are now playing Microsoft® Fury® with the levels you created with the F/Zone 
Fury3 Editor. If you selected more than one POD file, you will have the option to start 
at any of the selected missions. 


Have Fun!!! 


at 


FIZONE User’s Guide 


File Structure of F/Zone 


Transferring Worlds to Friends 

You can transfer your new worlds to someone else who has F!Zone. Just POD up 
your levels into a .POD file. There are 2 files needed: the TEST.POD and the 
TEST.VOX files (the name TEST is simply an example). Transfer them as you would 
any other file using Explorer (or File Manager). The .POD file will probably be quite 
large, SO you may need to zip them down. Make sure both are transferred into the 
...\Microsoft Fury3\CUSTOM directory. 


Deleting Old Level Files to Free Space on Your Hard Drive 


The files for a “level” are stored primarily in two places: the ..\LEVELS and ..\DATA 
directories. For a normal level, you'll have a lvl file in the .. \LEVELS directory, and a 
bunch of files in the ...\Microsoft Fury3\DATA directory (test.raw, test.clr, test.nav, 
test.txt, etc.). Once you build a POD file, all of these can be deleted. However, once 
they are gone so is your original level. You won't be able to resurrect it for a future 
POD. So be careful about deleting files before their time! 


28 


Trouble Shooting Tips 


Trouble Shooting 


Here are some solutions to problems that may arise as you use F!Zone. Try these 
before contacting Technical Support - they may save you time! 


e You got a Fatal Error and Fury3 Editor closed while you were trying to place an 
enemy. You probably do not have any enemies defined. Go to the Enemy Editor 
section of the manual and follow the instructions for defining an enemy. You also 
must place at least one enemy on your level before it will work. Also, if you try to 
place an enemy in a tunnel, you must have at least one enemy defined in the 
tunnel level. Remember, a tunnel is actually a separate level. 


e You got an Invalid Page Fault while trying to Add Sections while in the Tunnel 
Segment Editor. Open the tunnel level back up and follow the instructions given in 
the Tunnel Segment Editor portion of the manual. It must be followed precisely. 


e You try to play any F/Zone levels, but it keeps saying, it cannot find the .POD 
file. You probably didn’t install either Microsoft® Fury® or F!/Zone to the default 
directories. Uninstall them and then re-install them using the factory defaults. 


e None of the enemy ships move. They just sit there doing nothing. You probably 
have the Thrust Speed set to 0. Go to the Enemy Editor and increase the speed 
according to the manual. You may also want to boost their fire power! 


e You are playing a level you just created, and after the Mission Briefing you 
don’t get full screen graphics. Go to the Enemy Editor and tell your enemies to 
Show on briefing? - Yes at the Field List. POD the level up again. Now it will give 
you the full screen. 


e F!iZone seems to be working slowly or not working at all. Close F/Zone and 
Restart Windows. Then go back into F/Zone and try again. 


e Your ship just goes down to the ground when you start a newly created mission, 
but then goes right back up into the sky with a “Mission Completed” message. 
You must place some NAV Points (Start point, Check point, Jump Zone) so that 
you do actually have a mission to complete. 


e You fly through a tunnel NAV Point, but it doesn’t register - it keeps telling you 
to “Enter Tunnel.” You must Fine Tune the tunnel entrance and exit. Follow the 
instructions in the Tunnel section of this manual. 


e Trains do not need tracks. They just keep going around and around the world 
until you kill them. It’s fun to make them Targets! 


29 


Technical Support 


If you are having problems with F/Zone, there are several things you can do to 
efficiently get back under way. Please go through this checklist, in order. 


If you cannot figure out how to do something: 
¥ — Read through this manual. 
¥ Experiment a little to familiarized yourself with F/Zone. 
v If you still cannot figure it out contact WizardWorks Technical Support. 


If you are having problems installing or running F!Zone: 

Read the Trouble Shooting, Tips on the preceding page. 

Make sure Microsoft® Fury” works properly by itself. 

Make sure you are using Windows 95 or Windows 3.1. 

Make sure your computer meets the minimum requirements. 

Make sure your CD drive can access other CDs. 

Uninstall F/Zone using the Uninstall icon in the F/Zone program group. That 
will take all F/Zone components off your computer. Make sure the bottom of 
the CD is clean and unscratched. Reinstall F!Zone, paying close attention to 
the installation instructions and any error codes displayed. 

Y — If itis still not working properly, contact WizardWorks Technical Support. 


ee eS 


All registered users are entitled to technical assistance. WizardWorks Technical 
Support can be obtained by mail, phone, fax, BBS or e-mail at the addresses and 
numbers listed below. If you can provide us with a fax number, we may be able to fax 
a specific answer to you very quickly. Before you call, please be at your computer and 
have the following information available for the best and most timely assistance: 


What’s wrong? 

What exactly were you doing? 

What exactly were the error codes? 
Does the problem occur regularly? 

Did you install any other new software? 


my he Sy 


What Hardware / Software do you have? 
¥ Brand of computer & Processor speed (486 DX/66, Pentium 133, etc.) 
¥ Amount of RAM (8 MB, 16 MB, etc.) 
vy Which Windows version 


WizardWorks Technical Support 
3850 Annapolis Lane N. Suite 100 
Minneapolis, MN 55447-5443 USA 


9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Central Standard Time Monday - Friday 
Phone 612-559-5301 
Fax °612-577-0631 
24 hr BBS 0612-559-6197 
e-mail support@www.wizworks.com 
Web Site _ http:/Awww.wizworks.com 


Important: Please DO NOT call | Microsoft® Corporation for technical 
support of F/Zone. Microsoft® CANNOT provide technical support 
for the F!Zone Fury3 Editor or the F!Zone Special Edition Levels. 


30 


4/96 P/N 3250 
